89% of executives claim that AI makes
them more productive, but actually the
data shows that they're only saving 16
minutes a week. 16 minutes. Why? Because
most people are using AI basically like
a toy, not like an operating system.
They're going to go and ask it for a
slogan or a cute logo or an email or
make this sound better. And then they go
right back to spending their day buried
in meetings and Slack threads. And if
you are one of those people, the part
that might sting a little bit is that
you cannot mandate a transformation that
you refuse to participate in. So, if
you've been telling your team, "We need
to implement AI." while you personally
haven't rebuilt your own workflow around
it, congrats. You just made yourself the
bottleneck.
Now, I mean, in all seriousness, if you
stick with me for the next few minutes,
I'm going to show you exactly how to
reverse that, how to strip back all the
boring manual tasks, and how to build a
system that actually works
>> [music]
>> for you. Okay, now, let's talk about
what the bottleneck actually is and what
it's costing you because it's way more
than the 16 minutes, okay?
>> [music]
>> And I want to be honest for a moment. If
you're spending your week, I don't know,
summarizing notes and writing the same
standard emails or manually pulling data
for your decisions, you're paid for
leading,
but in reality, you're doing a high-paid
intern work. And look, no shame, okay?
This is what most operators were trained
to do, be in the weeds and be responsive
and be available, but the wait-and-see
AI strategy is no longer working. And
the upside is being claimed right now.
Okay, so, those who are early getting in
are probably going to dominate the next
decade because they're building with
leverage while everyone else is building
with [music] labor, okay? I call these
the fifth lever disruptors. If you want,
I'm going to make sure to link here a
video or in the description to watch it
where I break down the five types of
people that I think will dominate the
next 10 years. [music] But coming back
to you, the real cost of your inaction
is not just the wasted time. It's
actually a lot of missed opportunities.
It's a lot of slower decision cycles.
>> [music]
>> And it's allowing your competitors to
ship faster while you're still holding
alignment meetings. Tell me I'm wrong.
Because this is the new competitive
battleground. And if AI is not your
operating system, you are basically
driving or flying blindfolded. So, let's
fix that as fast as possible, okay?
Because in the next few minutes, I'm
going to hand you a blueprint [music]
that you can actually use starting
tomorrow morning. And this is not going
to be about opening ChatGPT to write a
polite email for 5 minutes and calling
it a day.
It is about fundamentally
re-architecting your role and your
business with AI at its core, okay? This
is about re-architecting your entire
impact in your business as well as your
business so that AI sits at the center
like the motherboard, okay? And I'm
going to show you my own blueprint to
help you become an AI CEO in just, I
don't know, 17 minutes a day. Almost
like a daily ritual. [music]
And when you do it the right way, you
will not just save the 16 minutes that
maybe you are saving now, you're going
to start freeing up hours and hours
every week. And you're going to be able
to dedicate that to the things that a
CEO should actually be doing, you know,
scaling your vision, building a
strategy, building relationships, deal
flow, product direction, hiring,
culture. And yes, this will turn into
money as well because speed and clarity
are revenue multipliers. And step one is
the one that almost nobody does, which
is why almost nobody gets real results
with AI, so let's start there. Okay,
before you automate, you need [music] to
audit. You cannot fix a bottleneck if
you don't know where it is.
I cannot stress this enough. The reason
is that automating the wrong thing is
[music] basically how you end up with
more efficient chaos or mess. Most
people are guessing where their time
goes, but I don't know, I hear them all
the time saying, "I think meetings are
my biggest problem." or "I think email
is killing me." Cool. Let's not think,
let's know. Okay, you need to take a
brutal look at your calendar and break
down your day into two distinct [music]
categories, automatable tasks and human
essential tasks,
>> [music]
>> okay? So, here's what I want you to do.
For the next 3 days, track your day into
columns. Column A, what you did. Column
B, label it either automatable or human
essential, okay? Automatable tasks are
things like meeting notes, follow-up
emails, first drafts of documents,
pulling numbers, summarizing metrics,
turning raw thoughts into a structured
plan or strategy or
whatever, [music] roadmap, scheduling,
nudging people, this kind [music] of
thing. And then your human essential
tasks should look like making the final
decision on project X, high-stakes
negotiation, coaching people through
conflict, [music] vision building,
taste, culture. And I challenge you to
track your days in 15-minute increments,
[music] just for 3 days. Humor me, okay?
You will identify the patterns. I've
done this for myself so many times
throughout the years, and let me tell
you, you're going to be shocked and
maybe a little bit horrified at what
you're going to find. Not the tasks that
suck your blood, but the ones that drain
your focus, okay? I have seen so many
leaders do this and realize they're
spending 2 hours a day just
re-explaining the same thing in
different formats, emails, Slack,
meetings, same content, [music] just
different packaging. I mean,
be honest, that's not leadership. That's
not why you're getting paid the big
[music] bucks. That's being a human
copy-paste machine, okay? So, once you
have your audit, you will know exactly
what your AI needs to do, right? And
that leads us to step number two. Once
you have the ugly list of time sinks
that's staring at you, probably, and not
being very pretty, the time has come for
you to hire, , [music]
the digital team that is going to take
them off your plate for good, hopefully,
if you do it right. Okay, so, step
number two is about designing your agent
team because most people treat AI like
one employee, you know, like, "Hey,
ChatGPT, do this thing."
That is basically like you're hiring one
single person and saying, "You're going
to be the CFO, the CMO, the COO. Oh, and
also, could you design the website?"
>> [music]
>> No.
You need to think of AI like a team of
specialized agents, basically like an
orchestra, okay? And you continue to be
the conductor, but you're going to stop
playing every single instrument
yourself, okay? So, here are the three
agents that you are going to be building
first. And [music]
the skill here, I think, the very
high-stakes skill is designing those
agents because asking better questions
is amazing, but if you're able to build
systems that ask questions automatically
every day without you, that is going to
be next level, okay? So, let's talk
about these three [music] agents. Number
one, your AI strategist or your chief of
staff. This is market research,
competitive scans, trend analysis, offer
ideas, positioning options, and most
importantly, decision-making.
Decision-making is where businesses
either win or lose in the market. And I
think a big, big tragedy is that most
decision-making time is not actually
thinking. It's searching, it's digging
through tabs, it's reading 12 articles
to find the three sentences that
actually make a difference to you. You
know that moment when you're about to
make a call, I don't know, on pricing or
hiring or new market,
>> [music]
>> and you think, "Oh, I should probably
research this." And then 3 hours later,
you're in a Wikipedia spiral about
something that's totally irrelevant to
your decision.
>> [music]
>> Yeah. AI kills that spiral, okay? So,
you're going to be looking for tools
like Perplexity, like Manifold,
basically to be your research analyst.
And then you're going to be looking at
tools like Notebook LM for your
synthesis engine, okay? You feed it your
documents and your meeting notes and
your strategy memos, and then it gives
back a coherent brain, a coherent
analysis. And then you can use Claude as
your reasoning partner. You can also use
a custom GPT if that's your choice,
that's up to you. But basically, this
needs to be the one that can actually
think through tradeoffs with you side by
side, especially if you build a custom
skill using the steps that I explained
in this video that I'm going to link
here as well as in the description
below. So, if you don't want to spend 15
minutes on a video, I'm going to give
you a very quick prompt that works
insanely well inside of Claude or inside
of a custom GPT. You can say, "Act as my
executive advisor. I'm deciding between
option A and option B. Ask me the seven
most important clarifying questions, and
then create a decision matrix, the
biggest risks, [music]
what I should measure in the first 14
days, and the kill criteria if it's not
working." And that last part, the kill
criteria, is something that probably 99%
of leaders never think about. And I have
seen that probably one too many times in
my corporate years. And once your
decisions get faster, the next
bottleneck becomes obvious, and that's
communication because a faster brain
still dies if it cannot ship clarity to
the team, okay? So, we want to fix that.
Your second agent would be your AI PR,
public relations, okay? This is going to
be an agent that handles the daily
grind, like meeting summaries and email
drafts and rewriting and checklists.
Communication becomes the invisible tax
on every leader's time. And most CEOs
don't drown in work, they end up
drowning in communication about their
work, okay? All the status updates and
investor notes and customer emails and
meeting recaps and can you send that to
me type of energy. AI is going to
replace your blank page anxiety,
basically, [music] if you do it right.
So, here's what I need you to do. You're
going to use AI to generate meeting
summaries with action items and owners,
whether you use Fireflies or Fathom,
that's up to you. Email drafts that
match your tone, that could be directly
in your email with Gemini if you use
Google. It could be through a custom
agent or it could be via plugins into
Manifold or Claude Co-work. And then
weekly investor updates with Notebook
LM. I cannot stress this enough, it is
going to be life-changing. Then you can
have internal memos to reduce confusion
and presentations.
Hopefully, that will not take all of
your Sunday night. You can use Gamma to
generate a very beautiful, perfectly
polished, highly visual, I don't know,
15 slide deck in under 5 minutes.
[music]
And again, I'm going to give you a very,
very simple prompt that you can run
after any meeting or create a custom
automation for. So, you can say
something like, "Turn these notes into a
five-bullet executive summary, the
decisions made, open questions, and
action items with owners and deadlines,
and a follow-up email draft in my tone,
direct, warm, but clear." Or whatever
your style is. And if you do that, your
team is going to stop bothering you and
always asking you, "Wait, what did we
decide in that meeting?"
And you will not have to repeat
yourself. Okay? But communication is
quite fragile [music] still if your
delegation is fragile.
And based on what I've seen, the number
one reason that CEOs cannot delegate is
that documenting processes
is drowning the life out of them. It
takes forever, okay? Which brings us to
the one process that I wish every
operator used [music]
a lot earlier, okay? So, number three is
your AI delegator. This is execution
support. It's parsing data, turning SOPs
into tasks, it's keeping projects
moving, and it starts with delegation
and process documentation. Okay, I work
and I speak to CEOs every single day.
And there's a big problem that every
single one of them tells me about at
some point. The number one reason that
CEOs and solopreneurs tell me they
cannot delegate is that documenting
standard operating procedures, SOPs,
takes too long.
I mean, tell me I'm wrong. Really.
Because I have heard this so many times.
The moment that you delegate, your brain
goes, "Ugh, I have to explain this
again. And if I explain it wrong or they
don't get it, it comes back to me
anyway. It's just faster to do it
myself."
So, then you keep doing it yourself. You
think that it's your employee, or maybe
it's their performance, or maybe it's
their attitude, but the truth is simply
that you had never taken the time to
break it down, to document [music] it.
I'll be honest, how many times did you
end up filming a quick screen recording
for the same workflow four different
times?
>> [music]
>> Because you have a new hire, or you just
forgot where you saved the previous
ones. I know, I've been there myself.
And that is how founders become the most
expensive task rabbit in the company.
But what if, instead of you spending an
hour writing an SOP, you just do the
task once and the tool auto-generates a
step-by-step guide in seconds. That is
what Scribe does for me. I basically
just hit record and do the task once,
and Scribe builds the full step-by-step
guide. It takes the screenshots, it
writes the instructions, and it becomes
ready to share automatically. And if you
change your mind later on, you can
change the logo, you can replace it with
an icon, you can change your color so it
fits your brand guidelines, you can
decide to hide or show specific
information, or even customize the color
of the pointer. And then I can either
send it as a link, or I can export as a
PDF, or I can even embed it straight
into our team's tools. I have detailed
SOPs for our workflows, and Scribe helps
a ton. And if I need to update something
in the guide, then it automatically
updates for everyone who has access, and
I don't have to reshare it. And in case
somebody still gets stuck, you also have
Guide Me, which walks anyone through it
live inside their actual workflow. They
basically see exactly where to click, so
you stop being the bottleneck. Look,
over 5 million people are already
working this way.
>> [music]
>> And you can do the same. You can head
over to scribe.how/aifounders,
or you can click the link in the
description to get started for free, or
get even more features with Scribe Pro.
[music] You can also use the QR code on
the screen if it's easier. And thank
you, Scribe, for partnering with us on
today's video. [music] Now, once your
SOPs exist, automation becomes
plug-and-play because now your workflows
have a blueprint. So, let's connect the
machine, okay? I need to give you two
more
agents. Number four is your AI operator.
This is execution. This is the part
where your business starts to actually
feel like it has an engine, okay?
Operations automation is just connecting
triggers to actions. It's very simple
actually if you do it right. Somebody
fills out a form, CRM updates, a welcome
email goes out, a task gets created, and
Slack notifications go to the right
person, and then a follow-up is
scheduled. You see? And you have tools
like Zapier to make this super simple.
You can use plugins, or you can use
automations with Manas, with Claude,
Cohere, with Perplexity, or you can, of
course, create your own custom agents.
And when you layer AI agents into it,
you start automating outcomes and
decisions, [music]
okay? So, here's a quick example. Let's
say a new lead comes in. Your AI agent
qualifies the lead based on your
criteria, and then it drafts a
personalized reply, it routes it to the
right pipeline, it schedules a follow-up
automatically, and you don't have to
move a finger, okay? It's entirely
possible, and frankly, it's expected in
today's landscape. If you want the exact
blueprint on how to do this, I did a
whole breakdown in my other video on how
to automate anything in three steps,
which you should absolutely watch after
this. We'll make sure to link it down
below, or you can find it on the
channel. The best systems reduce the
need for willpower. But there is one
more leverage point that most CEOs
ignore because it feels
optional, okay? [music] And that's
visibility, okay? That is such a mistake
because attention is the cheapest form
of distribution that you will get in
this day and age. So, let's talk about
content, okay? This is have to be your
fifth [music] agent, your AI content
flywheel. Spoken about this before, I
can actually make a dedicated video on
it if you want, just comment content
flywheel below. But basically, if you're
a founder or a CEO or an ambitious
operator or a solopreneur, content is
not marketing. Content is trust at
scale. I was actually watching a podcast
and somebody said nowadays all companies
should be media companies that also sell
products or services.
>> [music]
>> And AI actually lets you multiply your
thought leadership, especially through
the output, without having to multiply
your time. You don't need to spend 4
hours a day on Twitter or on LinkedIn.
You can build custom agents that are
trained on your past writing, [music] on
your philosophies, on everything you
teach, and also your frameworks. So, you
can use them to write and format posts,
repurpose a video into a month's worth
of newsletters and other types of
content systematically. And then also
let it manage your social channels and
do everything [music] in your own
language. So, here's what you could do
and how it could actually look like.
>> [music]
>> You can create one strong piece of
thinking per week, whether it's a memo
or, I don't know, a rant on an art audio
message or an insight or lesson from the
trenches, and then AI can help you
extract [music]
10 to 20 content angles, repurpose into
posts, threads, [music] scripts, emails,
can rewrite in your voice, can schedule
and manage publishing, can keep a
consistent cadence without you having to
live on social media. So, you don't have
to consume it, you [music] just create
it, okay? Custom agents are huge here
because you can literally train an agent
on your past posts, your favorite
phrases, your positioning, your audience
pains, and then have it draft content
that actually sounds like you, not like
a LinkedIn robot that's wearing a
profile picture
that looks [music] like you. So, I can
give you a prompt, but there's so much
more behind this, okay? So, if you want
to keep it simple, you can say something
like, "Analyze these 10 pieces of my
writing, extract my voice rules,
sentence [music] length, tone, common
phrases, structure, and then generate a
voice style guide and five LinkedIn
posts about this topic in my exact voice
with one contrarian [music] hook each."
I mean, now you become visible, and you
do that consistently, which means that
deals come to you instead of you chasing
them. And that sets up the real end
game, okay? What I want you to promise
me is that you don't just automate the
boring tasks, [music] that you look to
evolve your role because
I think what's happening is that AI is
getting better at execution, and also
faster than most leaders are getting
better at direction. So, you can run
what I call an obsolescence watch once a
month. You can ask yourself in a
reflection session at least once a
month, "What parts of your job are
pattern-based and repeatable, and what
parts require taste and judgment and
human trust and critique?" And you can
double down on the uniquely human, like
I said, strategic vision,
prioritization, emotional intelligence
and hard conversations, complex
problem-solving with incomplete data, or
building culture that people actually
want to be part of, or making decisions
where there is not much obvious right or
wrong answers. Your new job as an AI CEO
is to direct that orchestra. It's not to
play every single instrument because the
people using AI the right way are never
going to be less important. They are
only becoming more important because
they are the ones that are steering,
[music] okay? And now, let's make this
real with a simple next step that you
can take tomorrow
in 17 minutes, okay? [music] I don't
want you to think of this as just saving
time because it's about also building a
more profitable, more leveraged business
that works for you, [music] so you can
make more money with less chaos and way
more control over your time. So, I have
an assignment for you.
I want you tomorrow to start the day
with 17 minutes doing these two steps.
Step number one, the AI audit. Track
[music] your day and label your tasks,
whether they're automatable or human
essential. And then comment below, what
is the number one time sink that you are
going to tackle with AI first? Is it
meetings? Is it email? Is it reporting?
Is it content? Is it SOPs? And if you
want the full library of all the
advanced prompts and [music] agent
blueprints, you are always more than
welcome to join us in our community. It
is completely free, and you get not only
this, but also a lot of other value
through challenges and through calls
every 2 weeks. And in the meantime, like
this video if you did. Be sure to
subscribe if you haven't done so. Share
it with anyone in your circle of friends
or family who you think needs to know
more about becoming an AI CEO. And until
next time, I suggest you go ahead and
watch this video over here. Thank you
again, and I'll see you soon. Bye.